Philosophy behind the engine
To explain some decisions on features and their inclusion/exclusion
In no particular order


-1) This is open source, hobbyist work. Decisions get made in an non-professional capacity.
PraxisMappper, in addition to stated goals below, is also meant to be a fun project, done outside the bounds of corporate policies and decisions.
PraxisMapper intentionally embraces beta releases and early changes in its dependent components. Prepping for a release may delay converting or adopting a new major dependency change, but otherwise keeping up is important.
Expect PraxisMapper to be built on the current preview version of .NET primarily, as long as critical dependent components have a matching preview release or work as-is with the preview .NET

0) What is PraxisMapper meant to do?
PraxisMapper is a location-based game server, allowing devs create games that use real-world location data with less effort and external services than before.

Practical goals:
-Be self-contained: All of the elements a game might need should be available from the core server when possible. Highly complicated projects may need to write their own version of PraxisMapper that does more specific logic on the server, or import PraxisCore into another project.
-Be scalable. PraxisMapper should handle a game of any size, from a park to the planet, on the same codebase (Given sufficient hardware to handle the data load)
-Be efficient. Optimized code means less hardware demand, which means more people can make and host a game. Economic accessibility is important.
-Be flexible. Allow customization away from the defaults that allows games to have a unique style.
-Be simple. Make the process of developing and hosting a location based game as easy as possible. There will be a skill floor, given the complexity of the task, but push it as low as it can go.
Philosophical goals:
-Eat your own dogfood. An example set of games should be available, adhere to the principles stated here and elsewhere, and work for anyone hosting their own copy with no more effort than changing the server URL.
-Encourage smaller games from smaller devs. Not everything needs to be a AAA blockbuster designed to get players to spend more cash than they realize. Let local experiences happen.
-Be an example. Show that games can exist without the usual predatory behavior seen in so many big commerical games. Show that games can be better from a smaller focused team or individual.
-Encourage the good. Push for rewarding the creativity of making games. Push for making games encourage exercise and exploration. Push to let games be fun without locking that fun behind thousands of hours of play or a paywall.

1) MapTiles are not interesting game features by themselves.
I have continually had to shift my position on how important maptiles are to a game. I must admin that they are important, but they are not the game.
MapTiles make a game look nice, but having vector details small enough to see accurate building shapes is probably not useful for gameplay on a mobile phone.
It IS useful for players, since it lets them orient themselves spatially and recognize areas immediately. You do not need to be extremely zoomed in, however, and detail at very fine levels is unlikely to be necessary.
(Notice, on Pokemon Go, how the player's avatar is about 30 feet tall, and how points have a huge, interactable item positioned over a certain point. This partially allows the small details rendered to be plainly irrelevant compared to the in-game interactible objects)
Phones typically have GPS accurate to about 4 meters (12 feet). That means that area-wise, this is the smallest useful target.
An 11-digit PlusCode has an area of ~3x3.5 meters at the equator and shrinks vertically as you get farther away. This means a game focused on Cell11 sized maps is the smallest resolution gameplay could use in perfect conditions.
A 10-digit PlusCode has an area of ~14x14 meters (same limitations as above). Allowing for imperfect conditions, Cell10 seems like a better choice for gameplay.
For tracking lots of individual points (EX: pieces in an art gallery), an 11-digit PlusCode would be more useful than 10 but the user's position might drift significantly.
For tracking areas of interest (EX: are you in a park/cemetery/etc) a 10-digit PlusCode is sufficiently accurate, given the typical acccuracy of a phone's GPS.
PraxisMapper can generate its own maptiles and track them in a database. The database is important because it allows the server to reuse tiles until something were to invalidate them.
It's probably best you use the built-in maptile generation in PraxisMapper for games. Nothing stops you from drawing your own or using a different provider for map images, but they're free and well optimized, and won't pass user data along to advertisers secretly.

2) Focus on Interesting areas for the map
Interesting, for our use here, is an algorithm to dig through tags to find places that a player could want to go to.
Interesting means that a place must be
A-Publicly accessible. At a minimum, this is the consideration. Interacting with places up close requires this be respected. Allowing long distances for interaction makes this less important.
B-Walkable. We do want players to go new places and interact with them in-game, including ones that aren't within walking distance of home, but we don't want players driving around the block for points they should get by walking or exercising.
C-Spread out. We want the player to move and explore, and to go to new places (or at least a solid variety of nearby familiar places). The smallest interactible distance is expected be one Cell10 (~30feet).
D-Categorically Permmissable. PraxisCode contains the full default rules for which OSM tags constitute 'interesting' and allowed. Not all areas that are possible are good for this. Primary schools are a good example of a place that could be used but is not.
E-Exists? In the future, PraxisMapper can generate areas, which can be used for gameplay in places where there are no interesting areas according to the game's algorithms. Allows rural players to have an experience without travelling to a city, among other possibilities.
Areas players place on the map are automatically interesting, since someone was interested in creating it, but these are difficult to do without exposing player info.
If not interacting with drawn map elements, it's possible for elements to be generated by the server and scattered around. Rules for how this should work and be generated are pending.

3)The User is the Client. The person using the app is the person to think about when designing how this server and its game behave. People are not the product. This means, for corporate entities:
-No user tracking. A game is an activity for fun, not another opportunity to gather data and metrics on a user to treat them as the product for advertisers. The server, and my games built on it, will not track your location history on a server.
(Activities that require data to be stored on the server needs to do so in a way that doesn't identify a single user. Fixed teams is the easiest solution to this, though some solid cryptography might allow individuals to store info the server can't read.)
-No corporate deals. This game and server are not intended to be a way to provide hidden advertising or change behaviors to increase consumership. Games should build good habits for the player, not sponsors.
(Retail shops may be interesting places, but we do not want to make actual retail transactions a requirement, nor do we want to bias behavior towards a corporate sponsor by having a corporate sponsor in the first place.)
-No forced focusing on monitization, and only 'ethical' monitization. 
(An exhaustive list of which methods do or do not count is impossible. Generally, loot boxes and converting cash to in-game currency are the worst options. An upfront price, despite being generally frowned upon by mobile customers, is the most reasonable choice. Donations are the ideal in-app purchase if they must be present.)
-Respect the user's time and attention. Minimize the amount of time a player spends not playing the game (loading screens, transitions, etc.). Consider how passive exploring credits can be made into a background task on mobile.
-Also, remember that not every user has a top-end phone, and make games that don't demand tons of CPU power or RAM. The server should do most of the heavy lifting when possible.
The Apache license applied to PraxisMapper means that these are all requests, not legal requirements. I could not legally stop a dev from using loot boxes in a game based on PraxisMapper or a retail company advertising itself through a game, but I could be disgusted by that behavior nonetheless.

3.1) If the Clients and the Users are the the same person, allow tracking everything.
If you're running PraxisMapper for yourself, your data is yours and you should do what you want with it. 
It's kind of fun to see your location history expand over time, or notice what trails you've explored and haven't, or even just as an exercise tracker that doesn't sell your data.

4)The server and app should be efficient. Part of making a game that runs on a global scale is handling the data with the fewest resources possible. 
Pick fast prerequisites. When the server depends on another piece of software, pick the ones that are known to perform well, particularly at scale. Performance test options if they're equally viable and make the results public.
Understand the useful scope of things. If a typical phone's GPS is only accurate to ~12 feet, don't make features that require dramatically higher accuracy or resolution.
Functional requirements beat performance on priority, but do your best to optimize within them.
Optimizing thing for a global scale should mean that smaller, local-scale games benefit in the process, and can run on cheaper hardware just as well. One scope cannot be sacrificed for the other.
    
5)Everyone is always learning. This means that anyone participating in the development of the server or games around it should be able to read and understand the code involved.
Comment code thoroughly to help new developers understand what it's doing.
Keep code open and well organized.
Document stuff so fewer questions get repeated.
HOWEVER, be honest. PraxisMapper, at this time, is a poor selection for using in a first coding project. 
Expecting to make a functioning game around PraxisMapper and Hypothesis, that aren't simply a minor tweak to Paint the Town or Area Tag, are unlikely to succeed with the current level of complexity.
You need to understand your game's baseline game logic, how to build and publish a mobile game, understand LUA and the Solar2D APIs, understand spatial concerns and social consequences, understand OSM data at least enough to interact with if not how maptiles are drawn, and probably a few other wide concepts I've forgotten.
That's a lot to handle. I can teach how to use PraxisMapper. I cannot teach all of that in addition.

6)Security (From a publicly accessible game perspective)
The security model for PraxisMapper is extremely simple: don't save data worth stealing.
There should be nothing saved in the database, and nothing sent or received by the webserver, that would compromise that user without external information.
Essentially: the database should only store individual data that the server itself generated (Teams, unique IDs, non-location gameplay elements and statistics). 
Demo 1: if a user spends 80% of their time in park areas, and is a member of Team X, is that sufficient to reveal an identity? 
No. But if you were at those parks, and had access to the DB, could you figure out who that player is? Yes.
Demo 2: In-game player-created public locations are clustered in a circle, all tagged as belonging to xXExamplePlayer999Xx. They all make a perfect circle centered on one house. Does this reveal someone's identity? 
Yes, this narrows down the player to one of the people living in that house, and if they were to interact with others in-game, those other players could easily figure out much more info about them from the game alone.
Can this be fixed? Not making the account name attached to those buildings stops other players from knowing which player lives there exclusively from in-game info. Making these locations not be publicly available is also a potential fix. Requiring users to spread out these placements would assist in avoiding these situations as well.
Location data on players shouldn't be stored, and aggregating a player's behavior is questionable on how invasive it is. (keep reading for additional discussion on this point)
The server doesn't innately track user locations over time, and does it's best to block developers from tying location and players together at any point. 
Connections should use SSL to conceal locations passed as API parameters. This is effectively a mandatory requirement for Android/iOS games to use network calls anyways. Let's Encrypt makes enabling SSL as easy as possible, and can be done for a server's IP so you don't even need a domain name to enable SSL on your server.
The goal is that identification of an individual user requires additional, external data and not be manageable solely with PraxisMapper.
Tracking activity by team, assuming population of teams is sufficiently large, should obfuscate individual behaior. Doubly so if players are allowed to freely change teams.
The single most damaging option for security is enabling PerformanceTracker, which could provide a more thorough view of server activity if the server and/or database are compromised, primarily based on timestamps
(at which point, an attacker would insert their own malicious code anyways)
The short rule is: an insecure request cannot include both a location and a unique accountID. Only one or the other. Anonymous identities/handles do not completely remove the concerns associated with this.
While lots of parts of the Philosophy section are going to sound like a hard-line stance (and they should, they're philosophical points rather than practical compromises), this security one might seem the least reasonable.
Essentially, every game in the last 5+ years requires an account to keep track of your data on, and those offer lots of personalization, and a straight reading would say that you shouldn't even make accounts for players, because that could tie them to a location.
The big reason for this push is because people will want to run a game, probably for a small number of people, and not want to (or properly be able to) manage security perfectly.
So many small games get data compromised because security is hard. I want to minimize and avoid having that happen to PraxisMapper devs and designers by emphasizing that not storing important data means that important data cannot possibly be stolen.
Users deserve to know that their games aren't going to leak out a ton of personal information if the worst case data breach happens, and I want to push you to avoid storing that data for their sake.
It might seem difficult to build a location based game where the server doesn't tie players to locations, but its the direct connection that's the dangerous part (and even worse if you add in time as an element you save and display to everyone)
A company of sufficient size and resources should be expected to secure their data to a higher degree than the average expected PraxisMapper dev, who will be more concerned with having fun and making games than working on infrastructure.
The INTERACTION of a player with a location is entirely permissible:
Paint the Town is OK, because a player colors a Cell10 as they walk. There's no way to tell who colored which cell, or when. 
Area Tag is OK, because a player claims a Place for their team. Anyone on that team could claim it, and anyone can change teams at any time. 
(Niantic-created) Ingress attaches a player's account name to a portal when they claim it, and announces it to all players when it happens, AND TEAMS RAN BOTS SPECIFICALLY TO MONITOR THIS AND BLOCK PLAYERS FROM ACHEIVING GOALS.
It's not the claiming of a portal that's the issue. It's the rest of that, where attaching names to them (and especially pushing that information to a global chat channel) that enabled abusive, stalking behavior only using data acquired in-game.
THAT is the single best, real-world example of why I push this everywhere in the documentation. Don't do that. Don't let people do that with your game.
The proper way to attach a player to a location in PraxisMapper, if you need to do it for your game, is to use the SecureData endpoints and calls. This will at least keep the data encryped in the database, and hidden from calls that aren't using the correct key and password.
For data that isn't shared, it should use a unique, generated password encrypted with a value the user provides. Either an account exists where this data is attached, or this stored data is a secret only to people with the password.
The latter case works for a 'geocache' style setup, where something is hidden and the password is expected to be provided to people somehow for gameplay purposes.
The former is expected for more typical GPS games, and by using a good generated password that's protected by the user's password, the system owner cannot track the player's activity in high detail. 
If area/placeIds are used as keys on the PlayerData table, even with SecureData, this may leak some info to the system owner or exposed in a data breach, and should still be avoided, but keys with encrypted data won't be revealed to external users on Data calls.
A system-defined password could encrypt data on the location data entries that contains the player's info, and this would not hide this from the system owner but would protect it in the event of a data breach.
Additionally, only saving a current-state is vastly safer than saving a full history. In the event that a history is saved, saving a list of events without specific timestamps would be better than a timestamped history of user locations.
PraxisMapper has some built-in classes to store stuff that I said not to save directly above. That seems hypocritical.
But I have improved security and the ease of using secure data since writing the above philosophical point. 
I believe the security setup in place today, which blocks the server owner from being able to read the data, is sufficient to stop casual bad behavior. Determined bad actors cannot be entirely prevented.

6.1) Security (From a self-hosted, private/personal game perspective)
You should STILL save everything securely as a best practice. But you should save what you want. You can track yourself freely, since you're in charge of it all.

7) Why all this focus on not doing basic stuff bigger games do, or all these weird extra steps?
Ingress is fairly notorious for teams tracking down people and/or monitoring them in-game to prevent them from making any progress.
Orna is a fairly privacy-focused game, but keeps accounts and such. The developers wanted to make sure you could not stalk people in their game, and it does feature a large subset of solo players.
Unlike those 2 games, PraxisMapper is a toolkit, and likely to be used by people or teams with even fewer resources to start, and I do not want to be known for making stuff that enables stalkerware.
Since this will be used as a base, it should be reasonable to assume that anything built on it follows the basic assumptions presented here, and establish trust that anything using PraxisMapper is more likely than not safe to use without much worry.
I need the toolkit to be as ready to use as possible, with the fewest traps to make mistakes and the most suggestions and checks for good behavior.
It's open source, so someone that wants to get around any of the checks or do something suggested against can still do so, but it's additional work on their part, and thats the best I can do against those dedicated to doing it.
Ideally I would have some way to prove its a stock build of PraxisMapper, but how I could do that I have not yet investigated.

8) Server/Code Terms:
Plus Code areas will be called Cell#, with # the number of digits in the plus code, throughout the code. Use Cell8, not 8Cell.
Places are relations, ways, and points with tags of interest from OpenStreetMaps. A singular thing you would want to visit or interact with. One entry on the map.
Areas are Plus Code cells used to find Places or map tiles. A space of predefined size. 
Points are singular coordinate pairs that may be a reference to a Place or an Area, depending on context. A dot on a map.
Score is a player's total credits on something. The counter in a video game that goes up when the player does things.

9) Tech differences
Niantic games use S2 cells to handle gameplay effects and data.
Orna uses a customized grid, with 'regions' being a 10x10 degree square and subdivisions of those (exactly how uncertain to me right now, assuming 10x10 grids inside there a couple levels down.)
PraxisMapper uses PlusCodes, which start at a 20x20 degree square and break those down into a 20x20 grid, repeated 5 times to get the baseline Cell10 size.
Orna areas are likely very close to PlusCodes in practice, even though they're identified with anonymized/generated names instead of cell names.

10)System Complexity or the lack thereof.
An experienced developer might notice that PraxisMapper has 2 functional separate pieces (the database, and the PraxisMapper executable itself) and immediately
start to wonder how the server is supposed to scale up without any sort of clustering, automatic caching, load balancing, CDN, sharding, container automation, automatic updates, etc.
Smart use of those could increase PraxisMapper's scalability and performance, but the cost of implementing or supporting those would be to impede the ability to scale down to a 
personal use level, and I've decided that's not acceptable. A company with the resources to look into integrating PraxisMapper with any of those above concerns is certainly able
to fork the code and implement those if needed (and send in a PR if it's sufficently modular and optional). 

PraxisMapper should be able to run on a single server. That's a goal. The 2 biggest obstacles to that goal are database size (which can be fixed by moving the database to a separate
server) and simultaneous users. There is a point, which will vary from game to game with the amount and type of data processed, where the number of simultaneous requests will overwhelm
a single web server. I believe PraxisMapper's structure pushes that point as far away from 0 as it can, particular given sufficient hardware resources. What the core server should do 
to make it easier to split requests across multiple servers is a concern I will ponder once someone's running a game that hits that point.

11) Game State and the performance tradeoff
While we're on the the topic, let's point out one thing I do to reduce resources usage at the tradeoff of individual call performance.
Most game engines do their best to keep all of the game state necessary in memory at the same time to ensure high performance. 
PraxisMapper is inherently a mobile game with network data usage, so the idea of using it for sub-frame responsiveness is already thrown out the window.
PM instead keeps almost no state in RAM, preferring to read and write to the database on all calls that require it. The only actual required data that needs to persist between calls
is the Authentication info of who is actively logged in, so that we can recognize them on future calls.
This more or less lines up with the original intentions for HTTP, a stateless system that didn't depend on knowing earlier requests to handle the current one. It's since largely been
used and built on in ways that provide storing state, but that was the original goal.
This does allow PraxisMapper to run on servers with lower hardware specs, to the point where a personal laptop or Raspberry Pi 4 (given a correctly scoped game) could be used as the
server. I find this to be an extremely important point to keep the barriers to entry as low as possible.
It does come with 2 drawbacks that might frustrate developers: 
1-Any individual call involving data will take longer to run, which reduces the throughput of the server as a whole. This isn't too bad when you remember that the server taking 30ms
to load and save a piece of data is likely still the fastest part of the request, versus the rest of the latency on a cellular data network.
2-It becomes extremely difficult and time-consuming to do any sort of work that involves the whole of the game. Doing some kind of regularly scheduled process or applying in-game
effects to all player-created entries now involves reading everything from the databaes, applying changes, and saving it all back. At this scale, this can take a long time or require
making an external application that handles this particular task. 
This may be better handled by only processing areas on demand, so that things only happen when they're active.
EX: A player can place a mine that generates ore daily for them. Instead of having a nightly task that loads all players, and then loads each of their mines and grants ore every 24
hours, instead store the time resources were last generated, and when a player logs in check to see how many resources they're owed and update the checked time. This way inactive
players do not contribute to server load.

